[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So
this is an example of an RQ program.
You can write RQ in the form
of nested arrays which
describe the work that you wanna
do with the calls to RQ acting
as annotations as to what happens in
parallel, what happens in serial.
So here we've got one request,
that's gonna do stuff in parallel.
In parallel,
it's gonna do a couple of sequences and
then one standalone thing and
a race and a fallback.
And simultaneously,
it will also do this optional set,
just a similar sort of stuff.
And when it's all done,
we will then call this function that's the
continuation which will show the result.
So this is an actual JavaScript program,
so let me execute it so
you can see what it does.
>> Douglas Crockford: So each of these
widgets represents some service which is
being accessed by that program.
So those are the ones
that start immediately.
And I get to decide which of
these are going to succeed and
which are going to fail.
For example, if I have that one fail,
then the entire request failed and
you can see I cancelled everything else
because we don't need it if
the whole job's not gonna work.
So let me reset and we'll try it again.
So let's say this time that one succeeded,
okay, we're still running,
things are good.
This one is optional, let's say it fails.
Okay, it failed but no problem,
it's optional so we're still running.
Let's say this sequence starts, here it's
successful, good, so then A2 started.
We got the request A1 finished so
A2 starts.
You do a similar thing with B1,
that succeeded, so B2 is now running.
We've got a race with D1, D2,
D3, which one should win?
>> Speaker 2: 2.
>> Douglas Crockford: 2.
So race 2 wins.
And we canceled D1 and D3 because we
don't need those results any more.
Let's say our fallback fails,
not a problem.
The next step in the fallback succeeds.
And I can finish these in any order.
So let's say that goes and
maybe that succeeds and
that succeeds, that succeeds and
we're now good.
So at that point the whole thing finished.
All of the optional things
that were still pending,
those got canceled and we're done.
Any questions about that?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
could you give us a real world
example of where you'd use this?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, I will,
and I've been sort of doing that.
So I gave examples that we get the nav and
we get the ads and all of those.
Those are real world things.
Those are the sorts of flows that
you would have in a web application.
>> Speaker 3: They want 3 ads but
any of 12 could load there,
it'll just take the first 3?
>> Douglas Crockford: Sure, you can do
those sorts of things, whatever you need.
>> Douglas Crockford: So this again is
the program that accomplished that.
All of that behavior happened just in
the RQ functions handling that stuff.
So and you can compose these
things in lots of ways.
For example, this is a sequence
in which we'll do one thing and
we'll take its result and we'll pass that
to three different things, and they will
accumulate all of their results into an
array and pass that array to the last one.
So you can get lots of workflows.
So for
a real world example, this is the most
recent thing that I've been working on.
I'm working on an encyclopedia.
And I'm writing in
a authoring language and
this is the process that I run in node for
building the book.
So I first read the file and
I pass that result to the include
processor which handles the stuff
with all the include files.
And then I pass it to a thing which will
then compile it and produce the HTML.
And then I have another thing which will
then write it out to the file system.
So this is a sequence,
one thing happens to another.
But it's not being written
as nested event handlers,
it's written as a list of things
that happen one thing after another.
So it looks more like a program.
>> Speaker 3: What's the callback?
The callback's,
is the callback the next function,
or-
>> Douglas Crockford: The callback is
similar to the thing that we did
with continue wise this morning.
It's the thing that will
receive the result.
>> Douglas Crockford: So this is a special
case of continuation passing style where
at each step, we don't return the result,
instead we pass the result to
a function that's provided to us.
>> Speaker 4: [COUGH] And final
callback is essentially a console log?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
the last one will send it to the console.
>> Speaker 3: Anyway,
this is your program, right?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yep.
>> Speaker 3: So
this first function to sequence,
first it's gonna call
the first function and
it's gonna call the second function and
then the third and the fourth.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right.
>> Speaker 3: Where's the first, the value
of callback that gets passed into
the first function,
where's that come from?
>> Douglas Crockford: It'll be called by,
so
what I didn't show here is that
RQ.sequence returns a function.
When we call that function,
it will then call the first in this list
providing a callback function to it.
>> Speaker 3: And that's the hook
that makes it call the second one.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right.
>> Speaker 3: Sort of RQ.sequence
kind of always passes itself
into each of the functions that it calls?
>> Douglas Crockford: Sort of, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Speaker 5: It passes the value
from the previous [INAUDIBLE].
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, so-
>> Speaker 3: That, okay,
you mentioned that earlier, yeah.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right,
so you can think of it.
It's sort of like a pipe that's
passing the stuff through so
each gets the thing from the previous one.
>> Speaker 3: And this is not node.
This is just pure JS.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right,
this is pure JS.
You could run this on a browser as
well if you've got asynchronous
things to do there.
It would run as well.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, it's not a module,
it's just a global.
RS would be a global or
wherever you declare it.
>> Douglas Crockford: It's just a JS file,
you can load it however you want.
>> Speaker 3: It's just a JS.
It creates global, though,
called RS in the namespace.
>> Douglas Crockford: In a browser
it creates a global namespace and
in node it will add something.
Yeah, it'll export as a model.
So RQ can also deal with timeouts.
So each of those functions will also
take a time in milliseconds which says,
this needs to complete successfully
in this much time or we will fail it.
In the case of the parallel,
you can also specify untiliseconds,
which gives the optional set.
You got this much time
until you get cancelled, so
just in case that the main
ones finish early.
>> Douglas Crockford: Then we
can also deal with cancellation.
So any requestor function can optionally
return a cancel function, and
that cancel function when it is called
will attempt to cancel the request.
There's no guarantee that the cancellation
will happen before the request completes,
because they can be network races and
other things going on.
So it's intended to stop unnecessary work.
It's not an undo, it's not a rollback.
And also if you're trying to
cancel a transaction, for
example, this is not the cancellation
that you want to do.